# Awaken
Should you or any of your followers ever be so unfortunate as to come under the influence of a magically induced slumber, the use of a Spell of Awakening will often alleviate the condition. It is a simple spell which may be cast by the beginning student of the mystic arts with little effort or cost. It requires the use of Ginseng for its healing qualities, and Garlic in order to ward off the coming of sleep until the victim's body has returned to its normal cycle of wakefulness and rest. Blend the two reagents very carefully, apply the mixture to the brow of your sleeping companion, and then chant "levate" loudly.

# Blink
Many are the occasions that the thaumaturge needs to be elsewhere in very short order and finds that neither horse nor ship nor any other conventional form of travel is of sufficient promptness for the situation. Magical means of travel must then be used, of which the Blink spell is the most common. This spell disassembles the mage and companions and reassembles them at a spot many leagues distant in any chosen direction. There are means of travel that cover far great distances than the Blink, but they are far more costly and have other limitations which we shall examine later in this perceptible to the mind of a common person.
  The components needed for the casting of a Blink spell are Spider Silk and Blood Moss. The binding powers of the Spider Silk prevent the essence of the travelers from being scattered during transit, while the Blood Moss aids in the movement from one location to the next. Equal quantities of each reagent ensure the proper working of the enchantment. The concentration required for Blinking is such that the spellcaster will most certainly feel the effects, but not be left exhausted.

# Cure
Venomous creatures abound throughout the lands of Britannia. Rarely are they evil, nature having provided them with their sting as a means of defense against larger predators, but without proper attention wounds can fester and lead to the death of a victim. Furthermore, evil mages may cast noxious, poisonous energy fields during battle or erect such barriers to prevent the virtuous from reaching their cashes or sanctuaries. Fortunately, the great wizard Jaanth Nor devised a countering magic for the effects of all venom and recorded his findings for future generations to use. The Cure spell is effected by the use of a mixture of Garlic and Ginseng and the calling of the victim's name to soothe the envenomed soul. The curative powers of the Ginseng nullify the effects of the poison in the victim's system, while the use of Garlic wards off the return of any virulent residues that may lie dormant in the blood.

# Dispel
One of the staples of the wizard's profession is the use of energy fields. We shall discuss the casting of such fields shortly, but first let us examine the means of dismantling them when they are encountered. Although there are various forms of such fields, they are all created with a similar magic and thus may be Dispelled with a single spell. The Dispel enchantment is one of moderate difficulty, far more exhausting then the creation of energy disastrous, so the enchantment must be cast from afar and thus required the used of the precious Black Pearl needed in all projectile spells. Furthermore, Sulfurous Ash is needed to provide the flash of power that brings the dissolution of the forces holding the field together. Finally, the warding powers of Garlic are also employed to prevent concentrated. To effect the spell, speak backward the color of the type of field encountered.

# Energy Field
There are four types of Energy Fields known to the practitioner of the mystic arts: Sleep, Poison, Fire, and Lightning. Their effects are varied, but the magic used to erect them is the same in each instance. Any person attempting to pass through an Energy Field will run the risk of either falling asleep or being poisoned in the case of the first two types; if the field is of Fire then their flesh shall burn as they pass through and they shall feel much pain and anguish; while the field composed of lighting is impenetrable.
  The casting of Energy Fields is not difficult and requires only a small exertion on the part of the spellcaster, but the fields, are only effective in enclosed areas such as subterranean passages and inside of rooms. The reagents necessary in the casting of these Energy Fields are Sulphurous Ash for the burst of creation, Spider Silk for the binding of forces to a single spot, and Black Pearl for the launching of the spell to a spot away from he who works the magic. It would be a grave error indeed to cast such a spell without the latter components, for you would find yourself in the midst of the field!

# Fireball
When beset upon by evil, the spellcaster has many offensive tools at his or her disposal. We have discussed some of the indirect magics such as Energy Fields, but there are times when more direct action is required. There is a class of missile spells for such occasions, of which the Fireball spell is the intermediate one. All such spells call for the use of the precious Black Pearl for its power in the launching of projectiles. In the case of the Fireball, Sulphurous Ash is also called for in equal proportion, for its powers of fireflash are integral to the creation of flaming missiles. Speak the name of your enemy when the spell is cast and your aim shall be unerring and your enemy will be devastated by the flames of the magical fires.

# Gate Travel
In the repertoire of teleportation enchantments, Gate Travel is by far the most powerful. This is because it not only utilizes the reagents and chants of mast magics, but also the power of the gates of the moons that control the very oceans and tides. The moongates are located throughout Britannia, and appear only at certain phases of the twin moons Trammel and Felucca. To cast the spell of Gate Travel, one must speak the name of the moons as the reagents are stirred. As the enchantment takes effect, the spellcaster and any companions will instantly carried to the location of the desired moongate.
  It has been a long-standing tradition among the practitioners of the mystic arts to zealously guard the secret of the components of the Gate Travel spell. It is said that revealing these reagents will seal the use of the gates to the one who divulged the key. Of course, none have dared to speak of them for fear of losing one of the most powerful and exhausting spells in the lore of enchantment. This writer is no exception to this belief.

# Heal
One of the cornerstones of the good and true path of the wizard is the use of enchantment for beneficial ends. We have discussed the Cure spell which renders venom as harmless as the purest of well water, but the most common form of injury is the physical wound rather than the internal disruption brought on by poison. Swords and talons do not discriminate and the tools of justice are oft used for unjust purposes. When you or your companions have suffered physical injury that hath rent of seared the flesh, the Heal spell is invaluable. Mix similar quantities of the healing essence of Ginseng with the integrating strength of Spider Silk and apply it to the wound. Speak the name of the victim and the flesh will be hastened along the road to wholeness.

# Iceball
Once again, the invaluable Black Pearl is the key to the casting of the missile spells, of which the Iceball is the second most potent in the mage's arsenal. Unlike the previously discussed Fireball spell, the Iceball requires only the use of Mandrake Root in conjunction with the Black Pearl. The necromantic Mandrake will bring the chill of the grave upon your enemy and the very blood of the victim will freeze as if it were midwinter. Ice is heavy and the toll of casting this spell is equally weighty. All but the sturdiest of our profession will need take rest after casting but a pair of these potent enchantments. Remember to speak the name of your intended victim as you cast the reagents aloft, lest your efforts be for naught.

# Jinx
There are but two enchantments more powerful and difficult than the Jinx spell, and but one of similar potency. When faced with a closely packed horde of enemies, mix together equal quantities of Black Pearl, deadly Nightshade, and the crimson Mandrake Root to cast at your opponents. Call to their attention the vulnerability of their backs and weave the magic. They shall turn and smite each other as if each was alone in a crowd of mortal foes. The Black Pearl shall carry your spell to their very midst, while the hallucinatory might of the Nightshade will confound them beyond the boundaries of common sense. Mandrake Root lends the power of conviction to their misconceptions. The duration of the enchantment is varied, but throughout its course the spellcaster will be reminded of its potency by the presence of a glowing "J". Be warned, however, that the casting of the Jinx spell requires a great exertion.

# Kill
The Kill spell is the most powerful of the missile enchantments. It is the favorite of evil wizards and its use is prohibited by most teachers of the mystic arts. Nevertheless, when faced with a foe of singular strength and a truly evil nature, the wise magician will prepare a mixture of the highly toxic Nightshade and mercurial Black Pearl and speak the Truename of the enemy while casting the reagents toward the foe. As the last syllable of the chant fades, all of the target's vital organs shall cease to function for the space of seven heartbeats. This is usually fatal, although some beings of exceptionally hardy constitution will survive a single Kill spell. The enchantment may be woven several times, but takes a fierce toll on the energy and concentration of the caster. It is easier to Dispel a field of vibrant energy than it is to stop the functioning of a living being.

# Light
The enchantment of Light is trivial one, often the very first spell acquired by the budding sorcerer. It requires but a pinch of Sulphurous Ash, which is applied to the end of a staff and gently blown upon until it begins to flow with a soft yellow light. The spellcaster must concentrate briefly on the image of a candle and expend a slight amount of energy to start the magical glow. From then on it will burn softly until the reagent is consumed, lighting the underground passages where the thaumaturge treads. There are two principal advantages to the use of Light spells in place of ordinary torches. They are unaffected by all but magical winds or breezes; and they do not smoke and cause one's eyes to smart. Many a warrior has suffered grievously because his eyes were shut by the sting of a wealth of tears.

# Magic Missile
There are generally very few if any spells that are learned early in the practice of wizardry which are both useful and eagerly sought after by those dabbling in the mystic arts. The beginning thaumaturge almost always yearns for spells that devastate or create startling effects. The weaving of weather or the mastery of short vertical teleportations do not impress onlookers. The one simple spell that does truly inspire awe at little expense to the spellcaster is the Magic Missile. It requires the use of two parts of Sulphurous Ash to one part of Black Pearl in the casting, and it will cause a tremendously bright flash of blue light to strike an enemy. While not visibly marked, the enemy will sustain a fair amount of internal damage, said by the cynical to be brought about by fright more than by power. The Magic Missile is a useful enchantment in battle, but it is more spectacular than effective and will not deter most enemies larger that the spellcaster who wields it.

# Negate
When faced with a greater or more telling magic than one's own, the practitioner of the mystic arts may decide it best for all involved to suspend everyone's use of thaumaturgy for a short time. At this time one should invoke the powers of the Negate spell by mixing Garlic with its warding characteristics together with the exotic Mandrake ripe with mystic potency. To this blend add but an equal amount of Sulphurous Ash to provide the spark of fusion and speak your own name backward. All magic shall instantly cease save the enchantment of Negation itself, which is manifested by the vision of a glowing "N" hovering before your eyes. The Negate spell will last only a brief time, which should be used for either the annihilation of your enemies or for the judicious removal of your presence from the troubled spot.

# Open
There was once a time when all beings were fair and just. The principal vessel used for the transport of one's worldly possessions in these times was the wooden chest, which is still the popular means. But since the coming of the evil ones and their lasting influence on the inhabitants of our fair land, the practice of placing obnoxious and sometimes lethal traps on the locks of chests has become quite commonplace. Virtually all folk use such devices, even the denizens of the underworld who guard naught but ill-gotten wealth. To bypass these sinister mechanisms the thaumaturge need but utter the chant "Appar Unem" and sprinkle a mix of Sulphurous Ash and Blood Moss on the offending lock. The flash of Sulphurous Ash powers the movement potential of the Blood Moss and the lock will open itself safely, leaving the contents of the chest at the disposal of the spellcaster.

# Protection
There are times during the hear of battle when one finds the best form of offense to be naught but a good defense. When hard-pressed by fierce antagonists, the wise magician will mix together the reagents Sulphurous Ash, ginseng, and Garlic and invoke the spell of Protection. The wholesome qualities of the Ginseng, together with repellent strength of the Garlic, serve to shield the wizard and all companions from the onslaught of their enemies. Such protection is not always effective, but may be of great use. Sulphurous ash provides the mystic fire that fuels the incantation, and also serves to startle one's opponents with an initial flash as the spell begins to function. Protection is not a simple spell, but neither is it an exceptionally strenuous spell to cast. Its duration is short, and during the course of its shielding the mage will be reminded of its effects by glowing "P" hovering before his or her eyes.

# Quickness
The spell of Quickness is one the most unpredictable yet potent spells in the wizard's collection of enchantments, and one of the most telling on his or her companions. When cast during battle, the Quickness spell will heighten the natural dexterity of one's fellows to such a degree that they will move with twice their normal agility — at times they will be able to land two blows against their foes instead of the customary single strike during a round of combat. The price is age, for the recipients of the extra speed incurred by the use of Quickness will age briefly while under the sway of the enchantment... yet most feel that an occasional grey hair is but a small price to pay for the advantage of dealing twice the number of blows that one might receive.
  The reagents for the Quickness spell are fiery Sulphurous Ash, Ginseng, and volatile Blood Moss. The Blood Moss portion is double the others, for movement is the critical aspect of the spell. The Sulphurous Ash lends the flashes of energy needed by the beneficiaries of the enchantment, while the healing powers of Ginseng prevent them from aging so rapidly as to become greybeards after a single encounter. Throughout the course of the Quickness spell, the spellcaster will be reminded of its effects by the vision of a bright, glowing "Q".

# Resurrect
Many are the monsters and terrors that dwell beneath the surface or in the forests and marshes of Britannia. Even groups of most valiant and fierce warriors are subject to losses too tragic to bear. If a companion is slain by an enemy, all is not lost in the presence of the most accomplished of mages. There exists the means to bring back a compatriot from the land of the dead — not as an unholy once-dead being — but as a living, breathing creature of flesh and blood restores to life, albeit in an extremely weakened condition. Each wizard must determine the components of this enchantment that work best with their own magic, for the combination is said to be unique to each spellcaster. What is known about weaving this is the most potent of all enchantments is that it requires the spellcaster to scatter the reagents to cover the victim's body, while calling out the name of the slain companion in a voice of thunder. This magic is extraordinarily taxing, and rare is the mage who can continue to weave spells without rest once this enchantment has been successfully cast.

# Sleep
There are moments in lives of every practitioner of the mystic arts where discretion is truly the better part of valor. Not all foes are truly evil and deserving of annihilation — verily, some are but beast of the field seeking provender and are entitled to life as much as you or I. Yet, unchecked these creatures pose as great a threat to one as a score of rabid orcs. It is in such situations that the wise thamaturge weaves a Sleep spell and leaves his opposition in deep slumber whilst vacating the current location. The Sleep spell is truly a serious enchantment that requires a fair amount of mental energy to cast, but it is not of such import as to leave the spellcaster breathless or exhausted. To send your foes to the land of slumber, mix a double portion of Spider Silk with some Ginseng and chant "Duerme" as you sprinkle the reagents into the air. Fear not the distance between you and the intended victims, for the binding power of the Spider Silk will enfold them from afar, while the healing Ginseng will gently wrap them in deep sleep.

# Tremor
The Tremor spell is a very potent magic indeed. Few spells are as exhausting and none save Resurrection have a more striking or dramatic effect. Carefully blend portions of Sulphurous Ash with Blood Moss and Mandrake Root and cast it at the feet of your opponents whilst shouting as loudly as possible. The volatile Sulphurous Ash shall furnish the flash of power to the movement potential of Blood Moss and the Mandrake Root will lend raw necromantic force to the spell. The very earth will tremble and quake beneath the feet of your enemies and they will fly in terror, save those that are swallowed up entirely by the very ground itself. No spell in the lore of the mystic arts has as much power to strike fear into the hearts and minds of those that suffer its mighty impact. But use this enchantment wisely, for it will leave you as weak as a newborn babe.

# Undead
Ever since the coming of the evil wizard Mondain and his hellish offspring, the lands of Britannia have been plagued by the return of creatures already slain. These once-dead begins take many forms, the most common being the animated skeletons of orcs and goblins, or the ghoulish forms of flesh-eating corpses that have been summoned from the land of shades to wreak havoc on the living. These apparitions are cowed by the light of righteousness and fight as warriors in a trance. Nonetheless, they are hard to kill and never tire in battle and thus may jeopardize even a seasoned band of adventurers. Each mage knows a form of turning them aside when encountered, but the components of such magics are personal and depend on the spellcaster. You must use your knowledge of the properties of magical reagents to determine which two will lend force to your enchantment of Undead turning. When you have found the proper mixture, cast it at your foes while chanting the name of what the creatures once were when they trod the earth in life.

# View
The lands that we now call Britannia in honor of the wise and just influence of Lord British are vast in scope and hold many uncharted regions. Although cartographers have traveled all the circumference of the main continent, many internal tracts have yet to be accurately recorded, while there are numerous islands rumored to exist to the southeast with nary a chart to show their location. Here the practitioner of the mystic arts has a great advantage over the wanderer of seafarer in that the View spell may be woven when the need arises. The View incantation is of middling difficulty and involves the use of hallucinatory Nightshade and powerful Mandrake Root. Mandrake lends power to the enchantment while Nightshade provides a mystic overview of all the land within the range of a simple Blink spell. Simply blend the reagents and speak out the name of the region through which you travel.

# Wind Change
Not all Britannia is accessible on foot, and oft times the Wizard will find the need to embark on a sea voyage to reach some destinations in the pursuit of Truth. Once aboard ship, most voyagers find themselves at the mercy of capricious nature with her ever-changing wings. This is not true for the practitioner of the mystic arts, however, for through magical means one may control the very direction of the wind, albeit for but a short span of time.
  Wind change is not a taxing enchantment; indeed a powerful wizard can cast it almost continuously, although it is not so trivial as opening trapped chests or effecting minor teleportations... Simply mix Sulphurous Ash for power and Blood Moss for movement to coax the wind to a more favorable direction. Speak the name of the patron of winds and call out the direction desired and the wind shall change at your bidding.

# Xit
When trapped in the bowels of the earth, weary and battered with a long road ahead to the surface, the use of Xit (exit) spell can be beneficial. This enchantment is but one of the middling forms of teleportation, quite similar in cost and nature to the Blink spell. It too disassembles the party and reassembles it on the surface of Britannia, and thus requires very similar components to the aforementioned Blank enchantment. Aside from the moving Blood Moss and the binding Spider Silk which ensures the safe passage of the disincorporated party, Xit requires the use of Sulphurous Ash to provide the flare that guides the party from the depths of darkness to the world of sunlight. When casting the Xit spell, the thaumaturge should try to envision the actual entrance to the underworld used to gain the subterranean passages at the beginning of the expedition below ground. Successful casting of the Xit spell will surely return them to that selfsame spot.

# Y-Up
The two most elementary forms of teleportation both have strange names and may be used only when underground. The more difficult of the two is known by the letter "Y" in honor of the mage Yenthak Gnor, who first crafted the enchantment. Yenthak Gnor discovered that a blend of Blood Moss and Spider Silk, in conjunction with the spoken names of the moons, would cause on who utters it to be lifted upward through the very soil to the next highest level of a dungeon. The Spider Silk holds the party together during their transit, while the Blood Moss moves them ever closer to the moons.

# Z-Down
The "Z" or Down spell is perhaps the most simplest of all the teleportation spells. It requires the simplest of all teleportation spells. It requires the same components as the "Y" or Up spell — these being Blood Moss for movement and Spider Silk for its binding qualities — but requires half the mental energy and concentration on the part of the spellcaster due to the natural tendency of all bodies to move downward. The origin of the name is uncertain, but it is believed that the letter "Z" is the first letter of the unpronounceable Truename of the Lord of the Underworld, a demon of much power. To effect the spell, the spellcaster must scatter the reagents and chant "Baja" in stentorian tones. The lower the tonality of the chant, the higher the probability of the party moving down one level of a dungeon.
